---
templateKey: about-page
title: About
---

## tldr

I'm Sean McBride. I live in [historic Old Town Alexandria](https://www.visitalexandriava.com/old-town-alexandria/) with my lovely wife Erica. Our house was likely moved on felled logs to its current spot in 1880, an act that sure seems a lot more demanding that what I do for a living: web applications development.

I've been deeply into computers since 1993, and deeply into history and the military since 2000. I've rotated my primary occupation between these three things over the years, but all three aspects have always been present. It just seems that the market pays me best to treat tech as my occupation and history and the military as hobbies.

My current jam is "fullstack development," which for me involves building web apps using React and a server-side Node.js layer to orchestrate (duct-tape together) APIs and stuff things into a database.

When I'm not doing tech stuff or DIY house projects, I enjoy hanging out with my lovely wife Erica, running along the Potomac, or reading a good history book or issue of the Economist.

## Career Biography

While I generally think that most folks are largely in control of their own destiny, it's super clear to me that many of the core aspects of my personality have been shaped by where I grew up and the decisions of my family and friends when I was a small child. In my case, I grew up in [Fairfield, California](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairfield,_California), a distant exurb of the San Francisco Bay Area directly adjesant to a major Air Force base. This exposed me to the computers and the military much more than the average person.

### Computing in the outskirts of Silicon Valley (1993 - 2003)

For many generations, my McBride ancestors worked on a family farm in [Romulus, Michigan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romulus,_Michigan). Had that continued, I could imagine an alternate version of myself being interested in robo-tractors and that sort of stuff. However, when my grandfather, Harry McBride, was wrapping up his Air Force service during the Korean War, he decided that rather than go back to Romulus, he'd settle in California, a place that he saw enroute to the Pacific. With his GI Bill in hand, he decided to attend the 1950s equivalent of a coding boot camp run by U.C. Berkeley, which allowed him to land a job as a mainframe operator at [Ampex](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hnkRbVtRcV8), a major tech company headquarters in Redwood City. While working at Ampex, my grandfather worked on projects like migrating their data processing workloads from the [1401 mainframe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NF12U-P3LAg) to the [System/360](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V4kyTg9Cw8g&feature=youtu.be&t=16m10s). My grandfather left tech when the "Go-Go Tech Boom" crashed in late 1969, but our family stayed connected to Silicon Valley through my great-aunt, who worked at [Amdahl Corporation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amdahl_Corporation), a company that made "plug-compatible" mainframe computers. My great-aunt was a hard-driving woman that had foregone children to focus on her career, and this opened up my first big break when she invited me to Amdahl's first-ever co-ed "Bring your (Son or) Daughter to Work Day." That day, an engineer in a suit gave a presentation on something that sounded mildly threatening: the World Wide Web. I imagined armies of giant spiders crawling all over the place, eating everyone's pets and small children.

My interest in technology grew as I got older. Since my family was financially hard-up after my dad got injured at the [Mare Island Naval Shipyard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mare_Island_Naval_Shipyard), we didn't have a computer at home. I made up for this by going to the [library to use their orange monochrome terminals to explore the world wide web through a program called lynx](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yFF0oQySsh4). Without a mouse, my left pinky finder got sore hitting the tab key all the time. Folks at my church later took an interest in my hobby, and they started donating old computers from their attics and basements to create a computer lab that I could tinker with. This gave me access to a room with an [original IBM PC with big flappy red switch in the back on the right](https://www.quora.com/What-was-it-like-to-use-the-first-IBM-Personal-Computer), a knockoff Compaq, and a bunch of other weird personal computers that got wiped out by the IBM PC. When the pastor came in, I loaded up [Bible Adventures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQnB5QrQWA8).

By the mid 90s, I started a full-blown campaign to get a personal computer at home. One day, I walked in and saw a [bunch of boxes of Gateway computers in their distinctive cow boxes](https://youtu.be/duwqWCNuEmI?t=15s). I thought Christmas had arrived early. Only later, I learned that these boxes were part of some rebate - resell side hussle, so all of these boxes were already spoken for. I was crestfallen, and I suppose that my dad took pity on me, because he said that if I was willing to build a computer instead of buying one, he'd hire me to do chores around the house to pay for the parts. Thus began a multi-month oddessey going to [popup "Computer Show and Sale" events throughout Northern California](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bVvd733siBM), buying a Pentium chip here, a couple of Taiwanese memory chips there, and eventually getting everything I needed. I popped in my MS-DOS floppy diskette, partitioned and formatted the hard drive, and popped in my Windows 95 CD-ROM. Once the system booted, I took a closer look at what else was on the CD, and I noticed a video file. I double clicked, and [Weezer's Buddy Holly music video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ERqsrkwJnJs) started playing. Too bad my sound card drivers weren't cooperating!

By the time I got to high school, my computer hobby turned into a pretty-great part-time job when I turned 15. My public school district hired me to unbox and setup PCs, get them setup on the intranet, uninstall the default bloatware and install the school district's bloatware, and test that the printers worked. I used my earnings to get my driver's license, open an IRA, and "invest in myself" by earning the CompTIA A+ certification. The guy at the testing center said that I was the youngest person he'd seen pass the test, and that made me feel pretty good. What didn't make me feel good was when my boss declined my request for a raise based on my new credential. That taught me an early lesson about the value of tech certifications. Needless to say, I never took the Network+ exam.

### JROTC, West Point, and the Army (2001 - 2008)

Beyond computers, my one other big interest at this stage was the military. Both of my grandfathers were veterans, and hearing their stories made me associate military with interesting experiences and character development. Plus, since my high school was right by a major Air Force base, most of my classmates were the children of military families. As the one person in my eighth grade class that couldn't afford to go on the Washington DC class trip, hearing them talk about living outside of California (or even abroad) seemed exciting. This led me to join my high school Junior ROTC unit.

In contrast to computers, which had always been a very solitary activity that involved interact more with adults than people my own age, JROTC was the first time that I was able to develop a sense of comradery and friendship. To this day, my best friend remains Aser Tolentino, a fellow JROTC cadet. So when the dot-com bubble burst and the 9/11 attack happened, I shifted my priorities around. Rather than trying to get a tech job, I decided to instead join the military. I applied to West Point, VMI, and the Citadel based on the suggestions of my instructors, and I planned to enlist in the Army if I didn't get into one of those. Ultimately, I got into West Point, which took my life in a very different direction.

Thinking back, my experiences at West Point and in the Army turned me into a gritty person that's comfortable stepping in to lead when needed. I excelled at academics, did reasonably well leading teams, and sucked at pushups. I got a C+ in Gymnastics, and I raised my hands in praise to the heavens that I didn't failed. I got punched in the face in boxing, I drove a tank around during summer training, and I did a semester abroad at the German Military Academy, which gave me my first taste of traveling overseas. I got a pair of crossed sabers mounted on a plaque for doing well in computer science coursework. Those sabers and my lingering affinity for strong types are that only thing that I've ever really gotten out of learning [Ada 95, a computer language you've likely never heard of](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3xpFKvWgC7Q).

If the Army had had Cyberwarfare Officers back when I was commissioned, I think I likely would have gone that route, but alas, I was a decade early. Instead I chose what I thought best combined my technical interests with my warrior spirit: Aviation. I envisioned targeting computers, cool headsets, hellfire missiles flying down at the enemy. I did great at that [TIE-Fighter game](https://youtu.be/ZB_NSpUmIUU?t=38s), so this must be a cinch. I showed up at flight school pumped for my future career. Nine months later, I was judged medically unfit to fly. Nine months after that, I was medically discharged and again a civilian.

### Fighting depression and the Great Recession by returning to Tech (2008 - Present)

As hard as it is to imagine now with the markets going gangbusters, back when I was discharged in December 2008, hiring was frozen, people were still getting laid off left-and-right, and my childhood home was getting foreclosed on. I remember spending days handcrafting a cover letter for an $50k/year IT Help Desk position at a VA Hospital, only to get rejected in favor of one of the many laid off tech workers flocking to something secure with health insurance. Like many millennials, I ended up taking refuge in grad school, first at Georgetown and then later at Illinois Tech. I learned Java and this new thing called AWS, and I was able to network my way into a job at IBM, kicking off my post-Army career in tech.

The eight years of my tech career has been blur of different projects that required me to learn new skills. Broadly, I rode the initial hype wave of cloud computing. I worked on cloud management tools at IBM, evangelized modern cloud architectures at the FAA, and now I build AI-powered IT operations tools at Decipher. As time allowed, I took on side gigs during nights and weekends, largely using JavaScript and PHP. I'd always found web development to be a better creative outlet than writing Enterprise things in Java or automating cloud deployments in Python, so when I finally got a bit more financially secure, I pivoted to shift from backend languages to fullstack JavaScript via a nanodegree at Udacity and a three-month sabbatical to complete the Fullstack Academy Software Engineering program on a veteran scholarship.

Since the web development community is super young, I now generally find myself playing the role of senior engineer on most projects. This has forced me to stretch my leadership and coaching muscles a bit and dedicate time to work through my reading list of software engineering books. It's kinda weird, but I'm getting to the point where I like reading about design patterns and agile methodologies. Whoda thunk it? I've also gotten to the point where people I've mentored have started to go gangbusters as software journey(wo)men. This makes me feel a bit like a software O.G. (original gangsta), but the constant churn of frontend technologies forces me to keep on my toes and regularly delivers the sort of dopamine burst i first got when I popped in the Windows 95 CD-ROM and my mid-90s homebuilt PC first came to life.

It's hard to say what language or frameworks I might be using a few years from now, but I feel like my nerdy technical chops and my military grit put me in a good place to keep up. Each passing year, I feel like my rough edges are getting a bit more worn down, helping me become a better version of myself. I also become more cognizant of the many small blessings that have allowed me to live this amazing life.
